.TH "CREATE-CONTAINER" "1" "2026-07-18" "create-container 202607181900-git" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
create-container \- pull and manage the rpm-devel build container
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B create-container
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.I COMMAND
[\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B create-container
pulls and manages the ghcr.io/rpm-devel/build container image.
It provides shortcuts for entering an interactive shell within the build container,
optionally targeting specific mock build configurations.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B pull
.PD 0
.TP
.B all
.TP
.B update
Pull (or update) the container image.
.PD
.TP
.B enter
Start an interactive shell in the build container.
.TP
.B list
List all available mock build targets.
.TP
.B remove
Remove stale build containers (not the image itself).
.TP
.B 7 [\fIarch\fR]
.TP
.B 8 [\fIarch\fR]
.TP
.B 9 [\fIarch\fR]
.TP
.B 10 [\fIarch\fR]
Enter the container with \fBRPM_TARGET\fR set to the specified version
and architecture. \fIarch\fR may be one of:
.RS
.TP
.B amd64
Linux x86_64 (default).
.TP
.B arm64
Linux ARM64.
.RE
.TP
.B fedora [\fIarch\fR]
Enter with \fBRPM_TARGET\fR set to
.B fedora-${FEDORA_VERSION}-{arch}
.TP
.B fedora-rawhide [\fIarch\fR]
Enter with \fBRPM_TARGET\fR set to
.B fedora-rawhide-{arch}
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --color
Enable colored output. Automatically disabled if the \fBNO_COLOR\fR environment
variable is set.
.TP
.B --no-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.B --debug
Enable bash \fB-x\fR tracing. Also sets \fBSCRIPT_OPTS=--debug\fR
and \fB_DEBUG=on\fR.
.TP
.B --enter
Equivalent to running the \fBenter\fR command.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.B -v, --version
Show script version and exit.
.TP
.B --platform ARCH
Override the docker platform. Valid values: \fBamd64\fR, \fBx86_64\fR, \fBarm64\fR, \fBaarch64\fR.
.TP
.B --image IMAGE
Override the build container image.
.TP
.B --config
(Re)generate the settings file at
.B ~/.config/rpm-devel/settings.conf
and exit.
.TP
.B --update
Re-install the latest version of these tools.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
If set to any non-empty value, disables colored output automatically.
.TP
.B CREATE_CONTAINER_HOST_RPMBUILD_DIR
Host rpmbuild root directory (default:
.BR $HOME/rpmbuild ).
Mounted into the container at
.B /root/rpmbuild
.TP
.B CREATE_CONTAINER_HOST_BUILDS_DIR
Host builds root directory (default:
.BR $HOME/Documents/builds ).
Mounted into the container at
.B /root/Documents/builds
.TP
.B CREATE_CONTAINER_IMAGE
Container image URI (default:
.BR ghcr.io/rpm-devel/build:latest ).
.TP
.B CREATE_CONTAINER_FEDORA_VERSION
Fedora version for \fBfedora\fR shortcut (default: 42).
.TP
.B CREATE_CONTAINER_PREFIX
Container name prefix (default:
.BR rpmbuild ).
Used by the \fBremove\fR command to find stale containers.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Settings are loaded from
.B ~/.config/rpm-devel/settings.conf
This file is auto-generated on first run or can be regenerated with
.B --config
.SH MOUNT POINTS
The following directories are always mounted (read-write unless noted):
.TP
.B $CREATE_CONTAINER_HOST_RPMBUILD_DIR
Host rpmbuild root, mounted at
.B /root/rpmbuild
in the container.
.TP
.B $CREATE_CONTAINER_HOST_BUILDS_DIR
Host builds root, mounted at
.B /root/Documents/builds
in the container.
.TP
.B ~/.rpmmacros
User's rpmmacros file (read-only), mounted at
.B /root/.rpmmacros
.TP
.B ~/.gnupg
User's gpg configuration (read-only), mounted at
.B /root/.gnupg
.SH SYMLINK RESOLUTION
If entries under
.B $CREATE_CONTAINER_HOST_RPMBUILD_DIR
are symlinks into another checkout
(e.g.
.BR ~/rpmbuild/{repo} " -> " ~/Projects/.../rpm-devel/{repo} ),
their real parent directories are auto-detected and bind-mounted (read-write)
at the same absolute path so the symlinks resolve correctly inside the container.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Pull the latest build image:
.B create-container pull
.TP
Enter the container with AlmaLinux 9 target (x86_64):
.B create-container 9
.TP
Enter with a custom mock target:
.B create-container almalinux-9-x86_64
.TP
List available targets:
.B create-container list
.TP
Remove stale containers:
.B create-container remove
.TP
Enable debug output and enter the container:
.B create-container --debug --enter
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rpmbuild.sh (1),
.BR docker (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jason Hempstead <git-admin@casjaysdev.pro>
.SH LICENSE
See LICENSE.md in the project repository.
