.TH "RPMBUILD" "1" "2026-07-18" "rpmbuild 202607181900-git" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rpmbuild \- build RPM packages using ghcr.io/rpm-devel/build container
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rpmbuild
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fIspecname\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rpmbuild
builds RPM packages using the ghcr.io/rpm-devel/build container image.
Each spec is built for every enabled mock target via the build container.
Output RPMs are collected and organized into a make-repo-compatible directory tree.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B specname
Build only this package (matches basename without .spec extension).
Omit to build all specs found under
.B $RPMBUILD_HOST_RPMBUILD_DIR
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --target TARGET
Build only this mock target (e.g. almalinux-9-x86_64).
Can be repeated: \fB--target\fR \fIT1\fR \fB--target\fR \fIT2\fR
.TP
.B --no-sign
Skip GPG signing inside the build container.
.TP
.B --platform ARCH
Override docker platform. Valid values: \fBamd64\fR, \fBx86_64\fR, \fBarm64\fR, \fBaarch64\fR.
.TP
.B --update
Re-install the latest version of this script.
.TP
.B --list-targets
Print all enabled mock targets and exit.
.TP
.B --color
Enable colored output. Automatically disabled if the \fBNO_COLOR\fR environment
variable is set.
.TP
.B --no-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.B --debug
Enable bash \fB-x\fR tracing.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.B -v, --version
Show script version and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
If set to any non-empty value, disables colored output automatically.
.TP
.B RPMBUILD_IMAGE
Container image URI (default:
.BR ghcr.io/rpm-devel/build:latest ).
.TP
.B RPMBUILD_FEDORA_VERSION
Fedora version number (default: 42).
.TP
.B RPMBUILD_ENABLE_VERSION_7
.TP
.B RPMBUILD_ENABLE_VERSION_8
.TP
.B RPMBUILD_ENABLE_VERSION_9
.TP
.B RPMBUILD_ENABLE_VERSION_10
.TP
.B RPMBUILD_ENABLE_FEDORA
Toggle target groups (default: 8, 9, 10, fedora enabled; 7 disabled).
.TP
.B RPMBUILD_HOST_RPMBUILD_DIR
Host rpmbuild root directory (default:
.BR $HOME/rpmbuild ).
.TP
.B RPMBUILD_HOST_BUILDS_DIR
Host builds root directory (default:
.BR $HOME/Documents/builds ).
.TP
.B RPMBUILD_GPG_KEY_ID
GPG key identifier for signing RPMs.
.TP
.B RPMBUILD_CONTAINER_PREFIX
Container name prefix (default:
.BR rpmbuild ).
.SH CONFIGURATION
Settings are loaded from
.B ~/.config/rpm-devel/settings.conf
This file is auto-generated on first run.
The file contains the following variables:
.IP
RPMBUILD_IMAGE, RPMBUILD_FEDORA_VERSION,
RPMBUILD_ENABLE_VERSION_7/8/9/10, RPMBUILD_ENABLE_FEDORA,
RPMBUILD_HOST_RPMBUILD_DIR, RPMBUILD_HOST_BUILDS_DIR,
RPMBUILD_GPG_KEY_ID, RPMBUILD_CONTAINER_PREFIX
.SH OUTPUT DIRECTORY STRUCTURE
After successful builds, RPMs are moved from the container output directory
into the make-repo-compatible tree:
.B ~/Documents/builds/rpmbuild/{DISTRO}/{rel}{VER}/{ARCH}/
.SH SYMLINK RESOLUTION
If entries under
.B $RPMBUILD_HOST_RPMBUILD_DIR
are symlinks into another checkout
(e.g.
.BR ~/rpmbuild/{repo} " -> " ~/Projects/.../rpm-devel/{repo} ),
their real parent directories are auto-detected and bind-mounted (read-write)
at the same absolute path so the symlinks resolve correctly inside the container.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List all enabled mock targets:
.B rpmbuild --list-targets
.TP
Build a single package for all enabled targets:
.B rpmbuild foo
.TP
Build for a specific target only:
.B rpmbuild --target almalinux-9-x86_64 foo
.TP
Build all specs without signing:
.B rpmbuild --no-sign
.TP
Override platform for ARM64:
.B rpmbuild --platform arm64 foo
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR create-container.sh (1),
.BR docker (1),
.BR mock (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jason Hempstead <git-admin@casjaysdev.pro>
.SH LICENSE
See LICENSE.md in the project repository.
